Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture I'm going to talk about pseudo coding specifically
what it is and how we can use it to make sure that when we start writing our code we're not doing it
in a blind manner.
We've already got our flow charts and using pseudocode is going to allow us to lay out our coding structure
so it complements the flow chart approach really well we can cross-reference it but it's going to contain
more detail more detail than we put in the flowchart itself.
And it allows you to put down ideas and keep track of progress.
That's one of the key things that I use it for.
It's just a list of things on the screen written down in a detailed way so you know not only what you've
got to do but also how you're going to go about doing it is easy to catch those logical errors as you
start running through your code you may go.
It doesn't make sense if we do it that way.
But if we flip it round it will make sense.
And finally it is detailed.
It's an easy to read template for the rest of our code.
That's the important thing here.
We've got the detail and it being easy to read it's not being coded yet.
It's not been encoded in C++ so let's dive in straightaway and start the Super coding process so one
of the things to bear in mind is when we are pseudocode we're essentially making comments that are a
little more detailed.
So first of all here we've got a few comments that might be missing.
Now ideally you shouldn't have to comment your code because your code would be super clear.
However at the same time it'd be worthwhile just saying here this is where we set the hidden word and
it's fine when you're typing to use the same sorts of language you would do in your code.
The important thing is that when you are typing you do typing as a comment.
So it doesn't try and run it as real code.
So what are the next things we need to do here is set perhaps some lives.
So we need to set lives.
That's one of the things we need to do.
And then perhaps down here where we've got the on input for the moment and we'll flesh this out as we
go through perhaps here we might remove the life.
So let's have a look we've set our lives now and we thought about deprecating that life.
That's fine.
Let's go down.
So we're waiting for the user input when we take the user input we're talking about whether it is valid
or correct.
So let's have a look in more detail at that before we subtract the life.
Have a look here we're actually checking for its validity before we subtract the life that's key there.
So we probably don't want to be deprecated in the life at the same time as checking its validity.
It would just be a consequence of it not being valid.
So let's come down here.
So we're going to remove a life at some point that's fine.
I'm going to put it outside of this lots down here.
So going to remove a life but what else do we need to check.
We need to check if it's an eyesore gram.
We could do that.
We could check if it's the right number of characters and then we're subtracting the life.
So we've gone through all of those and then are the lives greater than zero.
So you can see we're just going along the flow charts at this point and thinking out our code speaking
it out loud as well that really helps to try and work through our flow charts.
So are the lives greater than 0.
And with that comes your challenge.
So what I'd like you to finish off doing is pseudo coding the game so include details almost like a
checklist in many places and this will ensure that as you're going through you'll remember things and
don't worry that you may add to this as you move forward.
Remember to also add questions if you're unsure about something as absolutely fine at this stage to
comments does uppercase or lowercase matter.
These are questions that you can ask right now or indeed as you start coding you can comment to n discover
it's answer the question.
It's a good way of taking notes within the code itself and it's great when you look back at your code
to explain your thought process as well going through especially as a beginner and then after you've
done that run through your code does it make sense.
Have you managed to capture everything you need so in order to run your game balls of the air now and
give that a go.
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's dive over into a visual studio code and pseudocode.
The rest of our game so at some point we've got to check if lives are greater than zero.
That's important.
And if not we can play again if yes or if true we can play again.
And if it's not rights and if no we live well let's check our flow charts.
We print the fail message and then we promise to play again.
So if no show game over I suppose you could call that and then we promise to play again.
OK.
So I think I've done the bottom bit here but have I really done the top.
So let's have a look here.
So we're welcoming the player and setting the hidden word and setting up the lives is really setting
up or initializing the game.
So finally let's run through our code to make sure that we've got everything in place.
Of course some new things are unlikely to appear as we start coding through.
So we're welcoming the player welcomes spoke house guest the four letter word presence to continue.
That's fine.
Then we set up the game.
We've got the hidden word being set which is useful.
And then we've got the lives being set.
That's what we've got here as well.
Then we promise the player for a guess which we're not doing here.
So we need to prompt plan for guests.
This is why it's important to run through your code
so this is all about checking the player I guess.
And we've already got some proper code here so if the input is the hidden word you've won.
Otherwise you've lost that's fine.
But we'll also need to say if it's a nicer Graham.
If the number of characters is correct as a way of validating that guess.
Let's just check against hair.
Is it valid.
Yes you win.
No.
OK.
What do we then go to do we subtract a life.
Brilliant.
Are the lives greater than zero.
Chekov lives greater than zero.
Yes.
Play again.
So we go back around to ask for guests.
Now I've said play again.
I don't think that's a good name for it.
So do think about your naming even at this stage.
I've said play again.
That to me really sounds like start a new game.
So let's say Guess again instead.
Rather than play again because later on we're asking whether or not we play again.
So we print the fail message.
If no show game over and maybe and hit a word.
That's an idea isn't it.
So as we as we lose the game do you show the player the word that they could have guessed.
So I think that'll be a great idea.
Ah yes.
And there's another thing here.
Checkered lives if.
Yes.
Guess again show new lives or rather more explicitly show lives left.
Now that is important.
Otherwise the player won't know how many lives they have left.
So print the fail message.
Yes show game over and hit and work.
I think that's a good idea.
And then prompts to play again wait for user input.
So this is a B check user inputs.
Or we could even make this more simple instead of prompts to play again.
Could we have press Enter to play again so there were a couple of options there.
That's the important thing.
Being opens options and thinking about the other possibilities when it comes to the game itself.
So we check the user inputs and then so then we have play again or quits.
I think that's about wraps up.
So let's run through it once more.
You set up the game.
Oh sorry.
We welcome the player.
We set up the game and then we go ahead.
Check for guests checking the user's inputs.
We've got some other validation checks here we're checking if it's an eyesore gram checking if it has
the right number of characters if it doesn't.
Which by this by this stage of course we can then remove a life.
Now I have decided that if they don't type in an ice a gram or the right number of characters I'm not
gonna punish them for that.
I'm going to make sure that they keep the number of lives.
That's why we're checking this and checking this.
So actually at this stage once again check your phone I say gram and I'm prompt to guess again and the
same is true.
Just under here if it if it meets these conditions here if it isn't ice a gram then fine but if it's
not we prompts a guess again check the right number of characters if it's not we prompt to guess again
and then of course we've got removing the life that's fine.
Check if your lives are greater than zero if it is we can guess again.
If it's not and we show the lives left sorry if it's not then we show the game over and perhaps the
hidden word.
And then finally we prompt to play again or maybe even just present it to play again.
And there we go.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
I'll be interested to see what else you've added.
Perhaps your list was a lot shorter than mine.
Remember this is something that we can adjust and play with as we develop our code.
It gives a scope for our code as well to make sure that we're not coding ourselves into a corner.
I'm happy with mine.
Hope you're happy with yours please share it over on the forum and I'll see you all in the next lecture.